docs/security.md, before:

---
layout: global
title: Spark Security
---

Spark currently supports authentication via a shared secret. Authentication can be configured to be on via the `spark.authenticate` configuration parameter. This parameter controls whether the Spark communication protocols do authentication using the shared secret. This authentication is a basic handshake to make sure both sides have the same shared secret and are allowed to communicate. If the shared secret is not identical they will not be allowed to communicate. The shared secret is created as follows:

* For Spark on [YARN](running-on-yarn.html) deployments, configuring `spark.authenticate` to `true` will automatically handle generating and distributing the shared secret. Each application will use a unique shared secret. 
* For other types of Spark deployments, the Spark parameter `spark.authenticate.secret` should be configured on each of the nodes. This secret will be used by all the Master/Workers and applications.

## Web UI

The Spark UI can also be secured by using [javax servlet filters](http://docs.oracle.com/javaee/6/api/javax/servlet/Filter.html) via the `spark.ui.filters` setting. A user may want to secure the UI if it has data that other users should not be allowed to see. The javax servlet filter specified by the user can authenticate the user and then once the user is logged in, Spark can compare that user versus the view ACLs to make sure they are authorized to view the UI. The configs `spark.acls.enable` and `spark.ui.view.acls` control the behavior of the ACLs. Note that the user who started the application always has view access to the UI.  On YARN, the Spark UI uses the standard YARN web application proxy mechanism and will authenticate via any installed Hadoop filters.

Spark also supports modify ACLs to control who has access to modify a running Spark application.  This includes things like killing the application or a task. This is controlled by the configs `spark.acls.enable` and `spark.modify.acls`. Note that if you are authenticating the web UI, in order to use the kill button on the web UI it might be necessary to add the users in the modify acls to the view acls also. On YARN, the modify acls are passed in and control who has modify access via YARN interfaces.

Spark allows for a set of administrators to be specified in the acls who always have view and modify permissions to all the applications. is controlled by the config `spark.admin.acls`. This is useful on a shared cluster where you might have administrators or support staff who help users debug applications.

## Event Logging

If your applications are using event logging, the directory where the event logs go (`spark.eventLog.dir`) should be manually created and have the proper permissions set on it. If you want those log files secured, the permissions should be set to `drwxrwxrwxt` for that directory. The owner of the directory should be the super user who is running the history server and the group permissions should be restricted to super user group. This will allow all users to write to the directory but will prevent unprivileged users from removing or renaming a file unless they own the file or directory. The event log files will be created by Spark with permissions such that only the user and group have read and write access.

## Configuring Ports for Network Security

Spark makes heavy use of the network, and some environments have strict requirements for using tight
firewall settings.  Below are the primary ports that Spark uses for its communication and how to
configure those ports.

### Standalone mode only

<table class="table">
  <tr>
    <th>From</th><th>To</th><th>Default Port</th><th>Purpose</th><th>Configuration
    Setting</th><th>Notes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Browser</td>
    <td>Standalone Master</td>
    <td>8080</td>
    <td>Web UI</td>
    <td><code>spark.master.ui.port /<br> SPARK_MASTER_WEBUI_PORT</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based. Standalone mode only.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Browser</td>
    <td>Standalone Worker</td>
    <td>8081</td>
    <td>Web UI</td>
    <td><code>spark.worker.ui.port /<br> SPARK_WORKER_WEBUI_PORT</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based. Standalone mode only.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Driver /<br> Standalone Worker</td>
    <td>Standalone Master</td>
    <td>7077</td>
    <td>Submit job to cluster /<br> Join cluster</td>
    <td><code>SPARK_MASTER_PORT</code></td>
    <td>Akka-based. Set to "0" to choose a port randomly. Standalone mode only.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Standalone Master</td>
    <td>Standalone Worker</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>Schedule executors</td>
    <td><code>SPARK_WORKER_PORT</code></td>
    <td>Akka-based. Set to "0" to choose a port randomly. Standalone mode only.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

### All cluster managers

<table class="table">
  <tr>
    <th>From</th><th>To</th><th>Default Port</th><th>Purpose</th><th>Configuration
    Setting</th><th>Notes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Browser</td>
    <td>Application</td>
    <td>4040</td>
    <td>Web UI</td>
    <td><code>spark.ui.port</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Browser</td>
    <td>History Server</td>
    <td>18080</td>
    <td>Web UI</td>
    <td><code>spark.history.ui.port</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Executor /<br> Standalone Master</td>
    <td>Driver</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>Connect to application /<br> Notify executor state changes</td>
    <td><code>spark.driver.port</code></td>
    <td>Akka-based. Set to "0" to choose a port randomly.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Driver</td>
    <td>Executor</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>Schedule tasks</td>
    <td><code>spark.executor.port</code></td>
    <td>Akka-based. Set to "0" to choose a port randomly.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Executor</td>
    <td>Driver</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>File server for files and jars</td>
    <td><code>spark.fileserver.port</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Executor</td>
    <td>Driver</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>HTTP Broadcast</td>
    <td><code>spark.broadcast.port</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based. Not used by TorrentBroadcast, which sends data through the block manager
    instead.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Executor</td>
    <td>Driver</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>Class file server</td>
    <td><code>spark.replClassServer.port</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based. Only used in Spark shells.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Executor / Driver</td>
    <td>Executor / Driver</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>Block Manager port</td>
    <td><code>spark.blockManager.port</code></td>
    <td>Raw socket via ServerSocketChannel</td>
  </tr>
</table>


See the [configuration page](configuration.html) for more details on the security configuration
parameters, and <a href="{{site.SPARK_GITHUB_URL}}/tree/master/core/src/main/scala/org/apache/spark/SecurityManager.scala">
<code>org.apache.spark.SecurityManager</code></a> for implementation details about security.

Commit message:

Spark 3883: SSL support for HttpServer and Akka
SPARK-3883: SSL support for Akka connections and Jetty based file servers.

This story introduced the following changes:
- Introduced SSLOptions object which holds the SSL configuration and can build the appropriate configuration for Akka or Jetty. SSLOptions can be created by parsing SparkConf entries at a specified namespace.
- SSLOptions is created and kept by SecurityManager
- All Akka actor address creation snippets based on interpolated strings were replaced by a dedicated methods from AkkaUtils. Those methods select the proper Akka protocol - whether akka.tcp or akka.ssl.tcp
- Added tests cases for AkkaUtils, FileServer, SSLOptions and SecurityManager
- Added a way to use node local SSL configuration by executors and driver in standalone mode. It can be done by specifying spark.ssl.useNodeLocalConf in SparkConf.
- Made CoarseGrainedExecutorBackend not overwrite the settings which are executor startup configuration - they are passed anyway from Worker

Refer to https://github.com/apache/spark/pull/3571 for discussion and details

Author: Jacek Lewandowski <lewandowski.jacek@gmail.com>
Author: Jacek Lewandowski <jacek.lewandowski@datastax.com>

Closes #3571 from jacek-lewandowski/SPARK-3883-master and squashes the following commits:

9ef4ed1 [Jacek Lewandowski] Merge pull request #2 from jacek-lewandowski/SPARK-3883-docs2
fb31b49 [Jacek Lewandowski] SPARK-3883: Added SSL setup documentation
2532668 [Jacek Lewandowski] SPARK-3883: Refactored AkkaUtils.protocol method to not use Try
90a8762 [Jacek Lewandowski] SPARK-3883: Refactored methods to resolve Akka address and made it possible to easily configure multiple communication layers for SSL
72b2541 [Jacek Lewandowski] SPARK-3883: A reference to the fallback SSLOptions can be provided when constructing SSLOptions
93050f4 [Jacek Lewandowski] SPARK-3883: SSL support for HttpServer and Akka

docs/security.md, after:

---
layout: global
title: Spark Security
---

Spark currently supports authentication via a shared secret. Authentication can be configured to be on via the `spark.authenticate` configuration parameter. This parameter controls whether the Spark communication protocols do authentication using the shared secret. This authentication is a basic handshake to make sure both sides have the same shared secret and are allowed to communicate. If the shared secret is not identical they will not be allowed to communicate. The shared secret is created as follows:

* For Spark on [YARN](running-on-yarn.html) deployments, configuring `spark.authenticate` to `true` will automatically handle generating and distributing the shared secret. Each application will use a unique shared secret. 
* For other types of Spark deployments, the Spark parameter `spark.authenticate.secret` should be configured on each of the nodes. This secret will be used by all the Master/Workers and applications.

## Web UI

The Spark UI can also be secured by using [javax servlet filters](http://docs.oracle.com/javaee/6/api/javax/servlet/Filter.html) via the `spark.ui.filters` setting. A user may want to secure the UI if it has data that other users should not be allowed to see. The javax servlet filter specified by the user can authenticate the user and then once the user is logged in, Spark can compare that user versus the view ACLs to make sure they are authorized to view the UI. The configs `spark.acls.enable` and `spark.ui.view.acls` control the behavior of the ACLs. Note that the user who started the application always has view access to the UI.  On YARN, the Spark UI uses the standard YARN web application proxy mechanism and will authenticate via any installed Hadoop filters.

Spark also supports modify ACLs to control who has access to modify a running Spark application.  This includes things like killing the application or a task. This is controlled by the configs `spark.acls.enable` and `spark.modify.acls`. Note that if you are authenticating the web UI, in order to use the kill button on the web UI it might be necessary to add the users in the modify acls to the view acls also. On YARN, the modify acls are passed in and control who has modify access via YARN interfaces.

Spark allows for a set of administrators to be specified in the acls who always have view and modify permissions to all the applications. is controlled by the config `spark.admin.acls`. This is useful on a shared cluster where you might have administrators or support staff who help users debug applications.

## Event Logging

If your applications are using event logging, the directory where the event logs go (`spark.eventLog.dir`) should be manually created and have the proper permissions set on it. If you want those log files secured, the permissions should be set to `drwxrwxrwxt` for that directory. The owner of the directory should be the super user who is running the history server and the group permissions should be restricted to super user group. This will allow all users to write to the directory but will prevent unprivileged users from removing or renaming a file unless they own the file or directory. The event log files will be created by Spark with permissions such that only the user and group have read and write access.

## Encryption

Spark supports SSL for Akka and HTTP (for broadcast and file server) protocols. However SSL is not supported yet for WebUI and block transfer service.

Connection encryption (SSL) configuration is organized hierarchically. The user can configure the default SSL settings which will be used for all the supported communication protocols unless they are overwritten by protocol-specific settings. This way the user can easily provide the common settings for all the protocols without disabling the ability to configure each one individually. The common SSL settings are at `spark.ssl` namespace in Spark configuration, while Akka SSL configuration is at `spark.ssl.akka` and HTTP for broadcast and file server SSL configuration is at `spark.ssl.fs`. The full breakdown can be found on the [configuration page](configuration.html).

SSL must be configured on each node and configured for each component involved in communication using the particular protocol.

### YARN mode
The key-store can be prepared on the client side and then distributed and used by the executors as the part of the application. It is possible because the user is able to deploy files before the application is started in YARN by using `spark.yarn.dist.files` or `spark.yarn.dist.archives` configuration settings. The responsibility for encryption of transferring these files is on YARN side and has nothing to do with Spark.

### Standalone mode
The user needs to provide key-stores and configuration options for master and workers. They have to be set by attaching appropriate Java system properties in `SPARK_MASTER_OPTS` and in `SPARK_WORKER_OPTS` environment variables, or just in `SPARK_DAEMON_JAVA_OPTS`. In this mode, the user may allow the executors to use the SSL settings inherited from the worker which spawned that executor. It can be accomplished by setting `spark.ssl.useNodeLocalConf` to `true`. If that parameter is set, the settings provided by user on the client side, are not used by the executors.

### Preparing the key-stores
Key-stores can be generated by `keytool` program. The reference documentation for this tool is
[here](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/tools/solaris/keytool.html). The most basic
steps to configure the key-stores and the trust-store for the standalone deployment mode is as
follows:
* Generate a keys pair for each node
* Export the public key of the key pair to a file on each node
* Import all exported public keys into a single trust-store
* Distribute the trust-store over the nodes

## Configuring Ports for Network Security

Spark makes heavy use of the network, and some environments have strict requirements for using tight
firewall settings.  Below are the primary ports that Spark uses for its communication and how to
configure those ports.

### Standalone mode only

<table class="table">
  <tr>
    <th>From</th><th>To</th><th>Default Port</th><th>Purpose</th><th>Configuration
    Setting</th><th>Notes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Browser</td>
    <td>Standalone Master</td>
    <td>8080</td>
    <td>Web UI</td>
    <td><code>spark.master.ui.port /<br> SPARK_MASTER_WEBUI_PORT</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based. Standalone mode only.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Browser</td>
    <td>Standalone Worker</td>
    <td>8081</td>
    <td>Web UI</td>
    <td><code>spark.worker.ui.port /<br> SPARK_WORKER_WEBUI_PORT</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based. Standalone mode only.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Driver /<br> Standalone Worker</td>
    <td>Standalone Master</td>
    <td>7077</td>
    <td>Submit job to cluster /<br> Join cluster</td>
    <td><code>SPARK_MASTER_PORT</code></td>
    <td>Akka-based. Set to "0" to choose a port randomly. Standalone mode only.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Standalone Master</td>
    <td>Standalone Worker</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>Schedule executors</td>
    <td><code>SPARK_WORKER_PORT</code></td>
    <td>Akka-based. Set to "0" to choose a port randomly. Standalone mode only.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

### All cluster managers

<table class="table">
  <tr>
    <th>From</th><th>To</th><th>Default Port</th><th>Purpose</th><th>Configuration
    Setting</th><th>Notes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Browser</td>
    <td>Application</td>
    <td>4040</td>
    <td>Web UI</td>
    <td><code>spark.ui.port</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Browser</td>
    <td>History Server</td>
    <td>18080</td>
    <td>Web UI</td>
    <td><code>spark.history.ui.port</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Executor /<br> Standalone Master</td>
    <td>Driver</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>Connect to application /<br> Notify executor state changes</td>
    <td><code>spark.driver.port</code></td>
    <td>Akka-based. Set to "0" to choose a port randomly.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Driver</td>
    <td>Executor</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>Schedule tasks</td>
    <td><code>spark.executor.port</code></td>
    <td>Akka-based. Set to "0" to choose a port randomly.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Executor</td>
    <td>Driver</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>File server for files and jars</td>
    <td><code>spark.fileserver.port</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Executor</td>
    <td>Driver</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>HTTP Broadcast</td>
    <td><code>spark.broadcast.port</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based. Not used by TorrentBroadcast, which sends data through the block manager
    instead.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Executor</td>
    <td>Driver</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>Class file server</td>
    <td><code>spark.replClassServer.port</code></td>
    <td>Jetty-based. Only used in Spark shells.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Executor / Driver</td>
    <td>Executor / Driver</td>
    <td>(random)</td>
    <td>Block Manager port</td>
    <td><code>spark.blockManager.port</code></td>
    <td>Raw socket via ServerSocketChannel</td>
  </tr>
</table>


See the [configuration page](configuration.html) for more details on the security configuration
parameters, and <a href="{{site.SPARK_GITHUB_URL}}/tree/master/core/src/main/scala/org/apache/spark/SecurityManager.scala">
<code>org.apache.spark.SecurityManager</code></a> for implementation details about security.
